How does the template and the class,
how do they know about each other?
So how do we essentially
zip these two together so
that a template and
a class at runtime comes together and
they can make sweet music together?
Well, this is done via metadata.
And, this allows Angular to process
the class, process the template and
put these together into kind
of a single coherent unit.
And we attach this metadata,
the TypeScript using decorators.
And this is I think prior to
going all in on TypeScript,
that this idea of using annotations or
decorators to establish or
extend some kind of like meta intent
is not new at all like spring and
Java frameworks of different
interviews this, but
it didn't really exist in JavaScript.
And I think even the Angular
team was going to create.
I think they're gonna call
it add script or something.
Thank God they did not.
But they realize that TypeScript,
they already had
an implementation of decorators.
And so, in my opinion,
this is probably one of the big
reasons why we moved to TypeScript.
Now, one thing to mention,
again, this is one of these
like hashtag pro tips is that these
decorators they are just functions.
And so when you define a decorator or
some kind of
metadata that in this happens
a lot with like input or
output is I'll forget to put
the function call in there.
So those are the parentheses.
As a result, it just doesn't work.
So do keep in mind that
they are just functions.
Which means if you wanted,
you could very easily create your own
custom decorators and
that's not hard to do.
So the most common is at component
decorator that takes a number of
configuration options that tells
Angular just like Engie module
this is how we want to attach, or
this is how we want to decorate this
component class with this style,
this template, et cetera.
So you can see here,
our component decorator.
Notice it is a function that is accepting
an object as a parameter and the selector.
So this is what we use to
attach it to the template and
invoke it in our application,
template URL style URLs.
So this is actually an array that you
can have more than one style sheet.
I've never seen fit to do that,
but you could if you wanted.
And you can also do inline metadata.
So when we get into component
driven architecture,
we will leverage input and output heavily.
So not only can you decorate the class,
but
you can decorate individual properties for
fun and profit.
All right, so
class template how do they talk?
How are they connected?
Well, this is data binding.
So data binding allows data to flow from
the template to the class and vice versa.
And so we have a few different types
of binding interpolation property
event into a binding.
And the binding syntax, on the other hand,
with Angular has expanded a little bit.
But what this allows us to do is
by expanding our bindings syntax,
we were able to create more meaningful
bindings while reducing the API of
the framework itself.
So, in a nutshell, there's four of them.
Most people are familiar
with the double braces.
So this is just basic
string interpolation,
meaning it is just going to render
simple strings in your template.
If you wanted to pass a property
from a class into the template, and
then possibly into another subcomponent,
you do that via property binding.
If you wanted to capture
an event from a template and
then handle it in the class,
you use event binding.
And if you want to do both,
so two way data binding,
is you'll notice that property
binding goes one way.
It's a one way street.
And event binding goes the other way.
And what happens if you take
two one way streets and
you put them together side by side?
You have a two way street which is exactly
how NG model works is that it is allowing
for when you update it in the component
class, it renders in the template.
But because forms and filling in forms are
essentially a bidirectional activity and
it's mutative by nature,
we need to be able to capture that
in update on the component class.
So this is where this two-way binding
comes in, more on that later.
And so we can just think of it
this way that you have a class.
It's passing properties or values into
the template via property binding.
And then if something
happens in the template,
we capture that via event binding.
And you can see here at the top,
we have some string interpolation.
We're just rendering title body.
So this is, again,
I want to render a string.
And that's as far as it goes that
you can actually pass a value into
a child component,
that's not what it's designed for.
On the other hand, if I wanted to pass an
experiment, so you can see in the second
line, I'm binding to experiment and
I'm gonna pass in is I'm iterating over
the experiments, I want to pass
that into the experiment component.
That's how that is done.
So we're basically passing a property or
a value from the class into the template
and then ideally into a subcomponent.
And then you'll notice on the bottom
here we have a button that we're
capturing a click event, and then we're
using that to update the message.
And then you will see to a data-binding
NG model, this is where it's on input,
so that whatever's in your component
class gets rendered into the form.
But as you update it,
it then gets rendered back.
All right, so real quick,
what about directives?
This was a major,
major piece that when you were doing 1.x,
it was what happened to directives because
everything now is component based.
Well, they still exist and we still use
them a lot whether we realize it or
not that a component is basically
a directive with a template.
So if you need to do something that has
functionality, but it doesn't require
a template, rather it needs to just act
on a pre existing element on the page.
This is where a directive comes in.
So I don't know if you knew this, but the
blink tag was deprecated many years ago.
And I think it's a tragedy.
And I think it's only a matter of time
before some hipster brings them back.
And I'm going to tell you how to do that
with a Angular directive called blink.
So we could create a class called
blinker that takes an element and
then you would just do something.
So notice it doesn't have a template but
it takes the element ref
that you're working with and
you can do all sorts of things.
So somebody could if they
wanted resurrect the blink tag
if you wanted and make anything and
everything blink.
>> Is there any concept of a virtual
DOM in Angular like there isn't react?
>> Not in the sense of real, no.
So I would say stylistically or
philosophically,
this is where I think Angular and
react converge the most.
So, whereas you have virtual DOM in react,
where it's taking everything and
then constructing essentially this
virtual DOM that is then being
rendered Angular, on the other hand,
they have decided to or
really leverage the core functionality
of HTML as much as possible.
So the answer is there a concept
of virtual DOM in Angular.
The answer is no instead of pulling away
from the DOM, the Angular team has for
the most part kind of leaned into it which
is why you're essentially binding up to
native dom elements, et cetera.
>> Is component extended from directive?
>> If we go into some code here,
I'm gonna show you just a bit of a tip.
One of the reasons why I like
TypeScript is that a lot of times,
I can click into something and I can see
here that component extends directive.
So, the answer is absolutely yes.
So the question is does
component extend directive?
It does.
And I think what they've done is taken
all the directive functionality and
said we're taking this.
We're just going to allow somebody
to attach a template to it.
So, this is really, really handy and
I recommend if you have a question
about something, just going and clicking
into it, and and seeing what's available.
So I spent a lot of time command clicking
into like these core type definitions and
so somebody asked like this
component extend directive.
I first thought was like well maybe I
don't know well that's really easy to
find out you can just click and you can
see here that it does indeed do that.
So, really, really good question.
So the question is,
is it good practice to programmatically
render a component in Angular?
And the answer is Intel, Angular 13,
which is where we are,
it was really hard to do that.
And so
one of the things that was really easy to
do in 1.x was to dynamically
render a component on the DOM.
With Angular 13,
you can now programmatically render
components on the DOM and by that
just to clarify is there situations
where maybe the underlying
data structure is the same but
the representation of that based on some
kind of a type might be differently.
And so being able to determine the type
and then say okay I'm going to attach or
instantiate this component into the DOM
based on this that would be a use case but
that would be I would say
the exception and not not the rule.
So the answer is, is it a good idea?
I would say in most cases, you don't
need to programmatically render your
components in terms of dynamically
attaching them to the DOM.
Is that more often than not,
you can just attach the template or
your component into a template and
it gets rendered that way.
But there are cases where you might need
to do that, but it's not very often.